Add performance benchmarks using `kurobako` (#3155)
optuna/optuna: benchmarks/README.md

# Benchmarks for Optuna

Interested in measuring Optuna's performance? 
You are very perceptive. 
Under this directory, you will find scripts that we have prepared to measure Optuna's performance.

In this document, we explain how we measure the performance of Optuna using the scripts in this directory.
The contents of this document are organized as follows.
- [Performance Benchmarks with `kurobako`](#performance-benchmarks-with-kurobako)

## Performance Benchmarks with `kurobako`

We measure the performance of black-box optimization algorithms in Optuna with 
[`kurobako`](https://github.com/optuna/kurobako) using `benchmarks/run_kurobako.py`.
You can manually run this script on the GitHub Actions if you have a write access on the repository.
Or, you can locally execute the `benchmarks/run_kurobako.py`.
We explain both of method here.

> ### How to Run on the GitHub Actions

Author: Please follow this instruction to try the benchmarking. Note that until this PR is merged, you need to temporarily change the default branch of the forked Optuna repository to "add-performance-bench".

> # Benchmarks for Optuna

Reviewer: How about leaving a couple of words about what's ultimately generated, e.g. the plots and how to interpret them?
An example would be really nice.

### How to Run Locally

You can run the script of `benchmarks/run_kurobako.py` directly.
This section explains how to locally run it.

First, you need to install `kurobako` and its Python helper.
To install `kurobako`, see https://github.com/optuna/kurobako#installation for more details.
In addition, please run `pip install kurobako` to install the Python helper.
You need to install `gnupolot` for visualization with `kurobako`.
You can install `gnuplot` by package managers such as `apt` (for Ubuntu) or `brew` (for macOS).

Second, you need to download the dataset for `kurobako`.
Run the followings in the dataset directory.
```bash
# Download hyperparameter optimization (HPO) dataset
% wget http://ml4aad.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/fcnet_tabular_benchmarks.tar.gz
% tar xf fcnet_tabular_benchmarks.tar.gz

# Download neural architecture search (NAS) dataset
# The `kurobako` command should be available.
% curl -L $(kurobako dataset nasbench url) -o nasbench_full.tfrecord
% kurobako dataset nasbench convert nasbench_full.tfrecord nasbench_full.bin
```

Finally, you can run the script of `benchmarks/run_kurobako.py`.
```bash

> % python benchmarks/run_kurobako.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
% python benchmarks/run_kurobako.py \
```

>           --path-to-kurobako "." \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          --path-to-kurobako "." \  # If the binary of `kurobako` is located outside `PATH`.
```

I'm not sure it is a good explanation but it would be helpful to add a note.
If users install `kurobako` using `cargo`, they will see an error like following:

```
> python benchmarks/run_kurobako.py \
          --path-to-kurobako "." \
          --name "performance-benchmarks" \
          --n-runs 10 \
          --n-jobs 10 \
          --sampler-list "RandomSampler TPESampler" \
          --sampler-kwargs-list "{} {}" \
          --pruner-list "NopPruner" \
          --pruner-kwargs-list "{}" \
          --seed 0 \
          --data-dir "." \
          --out-dir "out"
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
/bin/sh: 1: ./kurobako: not found
```

The history is averaged over the specified `n_runs` studies with the errorbar.
The horizontal axis represents the budget (`#budgets * #epochs = \sum_{for each trial) (#consumed epochs in the trial)`).
The vertical axis represents the objective value.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38826298/146860370-853174c7-afc5-4f67-8143-61f22d2c8f6c.png)

Note that the default run time of a GitHub Actions workflow job is limited to 6 hours. 
Depending on the sampler and number of studies you specify, it may exceed the 6-hour limit and fail.
See the [official document](https://docs.github.com/ja/actions/learn-github-actions/usage-limits-billing-and-administration) for more details.

### How to Run Locally

You can run the script of `benchmarks/run_kurobako.py` directly.
This section explains how to locally run it.

First, you need to install `kurobako` and its Python helper.
To install `kurobako`, see https://github.com/optuna/kurobako#installation for more details.
In addition, please run `pip install kurobako` to install the Python helper.
You need to install `gnupolot` for visualization with `kurobako`.

> Please run `sudo apt -y install gnuplot` if you use Linux.
> Please install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) and run `brew install gnuplot` if you use MacOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can install `gnuplot` by package managers such as `apt` (for Ubuntu) or `brew` (for macOS).
```
